# TFWP-project
The Temporary Foreign Workers program is accessible to workers outside of Canada in the country’s need to fill short-term labour and skill shortages when due to a lack of citizens’ and permanent residents’ availabilities. (The Honourable Mark Miller, P.C, M.P., 2023 Annual Report to Parliament on Immigration). It is a very common program amongst temporary foreign workers, alongside the International Mobility Program (IMP). However, there are few differences between them. 

Due to my recent experience working with migrants and my knowledge in statistics and data analysis, I want to take a deeper dive into the TFWP in terms of its recent data available and observe how intersectional gender issued could be perceived in it. I made an infographic of 2023’s TFWP statistics, as well as graphs reflecting the trends perceived of the TFWP overtime in the 21st century. 

The databases I used are sourced from the Open Government Portal of Canada. It is an open source containing public datasets in means of “the federal government’s commitment to enhancing accountability and transparency” (Government of Canada, Open Government Portal).
I chose to focus on the 21st century since the data available on the TFWP mostly covers this timelapse. I decided to focus on the high-wage and low-wage positions of the TFWP, as there were more datasets including information on these streams. I used four datasets that include the gender, the type of employment, and country of origin of Temporary Foreign Workers who own a work permit and the province/territory in which they work in. 
There are two databases that include the variables of gender and type of employment of the workers who own a work permit. One displays Temporary Foreign Worker Program work permit holders with a valid permit on December 31st by gender and occupational skill level from 2006 to 2015. The other one includes Temporary Foreign Worker Program work permit holders by gender, occupational skill level and year in which permit(s) became effective from January 2015 to January 2024. 
Since the first one counts unique workers with a work permit, and the later counts all work permits that a person could have had in a year, I needed to normalize the data to make them more compatible. By using Microsoft Excel, I did so by turning the values of each database into percentages of their respective totals, which is what appears in the graphs of the infographic. 

I used the third database, Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) work permit holders on December 31st by country of citizenship from 2000 to 2023, to sort the country of origin of the workers into the Global North and Global South. I was able to use the list of countries in the Global South provided by the Organization for Women in Science for the Developing World (OSWD) as a reference. I also had to normalize the data by putting the values in percentages in respect to its total to link it to the other datasets. 
I used the fourth dataset, Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) work permit holders by province/territory of intended destination, program and year in which permit(s) became effective from January 2015 to January 2024, to provide information on the TFWP in 2023. 
It is possible that the databases contain inaccuracies as they are constantly being updated with recent finding by the IRCC. 
